---
layout: page
title: Library
permalink: /library/
---

This is the Library, where you can explore resources that can help you
find digital surrogates and metadata for manuscripts.

### [**Schoenberg Database of Manuscripts (SDBM)**](https://sdbm.library.upenn.edu/)

[<img align="right" width="400" src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/pn6H0I4sS4Q/0.jpg" alt="Link to YouTube Introductory webinar">](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pn6H0I4sS4Q "Introductory Webinar")

> The SDBM aggregates observations of pre-modern manuscripts from
historical and contemporary sources that document the sales and
locations of these books from around the world. Entries in the SDBM
assist researchers in locating and identifying particular manuscripts,
establishing provenance, and collecting descriptive information about
specific classes or types of manuscripts. SDBM user accounts are free
and open to all, allowing users to contribute to the databaseâ€™s
development by adding and linking entries, creating name and place
authority files, and collaborating with other users on shared research
interests. Our user community includes scholars, librarians,
booksellers, students, collectors, and others who care about manuscripts
and want to contribute to our shared knowledge of their histories.

>  This [**introductory webinar**](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pn6H0I4sS4Q) provides a basic introduction to the database. It includes
an explanation of the SDBM's development history and data model,
followed by demonstrations of the user interface and search strategies.
Viewers will also learn how to contribute their own knowledge to the
database in the form of Personal Observations. This webinar was recorded
on May 19, 2020 with a live audience and includes their questions at the
end.


### [**OPenn: Digital Primary Resources**](http://openn.library.upenn.edu/)

> OPenn contains complete sets of high-resolution archival images of
cultural heritage material from the collections of its contributing
institutions, along with machine-readable descriptive and technical
metadata. All materials on OPenn are in the public domain or released
under Creative Commons licenses as Free Cultural Works. Please see
specific repository pages and documents for applicable license terms.
The data on OPenn is intended for aggregators, digital humanists, and
scholars who have been directed here to procure high-resolution images
of manuscript pages. It is presented in a manner most likely to ensure
its long-term digital preservation. Many of the images here are
available via more user-friendly page-turning applications on
institutional websites. See [**individual repository pages**](http://openn.library.upenn.edu/Repositories.html) for details.
